This directory contains the source code for DIXtrac, a tool for extracting
disk characteristics of SCSI/FC disk drives.

The get started, compile the source and then use the new_disk.pl
script to setup a new directory where the DIXtrac should run.  The
new_disk.pl script uses a "template" from the templates/ subdirectory,
which includes, among others, a Makefile. This Makefile drives the
entire disk characterization by executing a series of binaries from
this directory. The output of the characterization is a series of
files in the Disksim 4.0 format.

The characterization steps include extraction of layout (mappings of
logical blocks to physical locations), mechanical parameters such as
seek profile, and extraction of various overheads that are used in
Disksim. The Makefile also performs a series of validations against
the just-extracted values using Disksim trace replay.

To create diskspecs for Disksim without any validations against
Disksim model, issue "make extract". To also validate the
just-extracted parameters, run "make validate". Finally, the "make
graphs" creates a series of graphs in addition to the validation part.


DIXtrac, as distributed here, will run only on Linux systems -- it
uses the SCSI generic (sg) device drives to issue commands directly to
the disks. It has been successfully compiled and run on FreeBSD 5.2. If
you know autoconf and want to attempt to compile it on FreeBSD, study
the configuration scripts and the *.in scripts and the "dx_build"
scripts. However, we strongly discourage against compiling and
running DIXtrac on FreeBSD.


DISCLAIMER 
----------
Keep in mind that the DIXtrac tool is provided as-is. Neither the
authors nor Carnegie Mellon University are liable for any potential
harm to your disk drive(s). The parameter extraction will erase data
on your disks. Furthermore it is not guaranteed the tool will work
against your SCSI/FC disk.  It has been successfully used in the past
on many SCSI and FC disks. However, as disk firmware improves, DIXtrac
may not be able to extract the parameters or cope with the layout of
the particular disk. Even if the extraction succeeds, the parameters
used for Disksim may not accurately capture the disk's behavior. In
particular, the caching model of Disksim (and hence its configuration
parameters) do no reflect the current architectures of multi-segmented
adaptive caches. 
